Add VMC3 news post and associated wiki article (#13800)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Contests/VMC/3/en.md

---
tags:
  - VMC3
  - VMC
---

# Vocaloid Mapping Contest 3

![VMC banner](insert thing here)

> The **Vocaloid Mapping Contest** (***VMC***) is a beatmapping contest hosted by the Vocaloid Appreciation Team (VAT). Its purpose is to **promote VOCALOID, UTAU, and other vocal synth music**, giving both popular and overlooked songs a chance to shine.  
> Participants compete to create the **best beatmap possible**, with their entries judged by some of the most talented and respected VOCALOID-focused mappers in the osu! community.

Reviewer: for wiki articles, bolding less is better

```suggestion
The **Vocaloid Mapping Contest** (***VMC***) is a beatmapping contest hosted by the Vocaloid Appreciation Team (VAT). Its purpose is to *promote VOCALOID, UTAU, and other vocal synth music*, giving both popular and overlooked songs a chance to shine.

Participants compete to create the *best beatmap possible*, with their entries judged by some of the most talented and respected VOCALOID-focused mappers in the osu! community.
```

> The third iteration of the contest introduces a **multi-phase format** featuring the **PARALLEL**, **SWAP**, and **DUET** rounds. This year also celebrates multiple Featured Artists whose songs were specifically chosen for the competition, along with continued support for every game mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third iteration of the contest introduces a *multi-phase format* featuring the **PARALLEL**, **SWAP**, and **DUET** rounds. This year also celebrates multiple Featured Artists whose songs were specifically chosen for the competition, along with continued support for every game mode.
```

## Contest schedule

| Event | Timestamp |
| --: | :-- |

> | Announcement | 2025-10-05 |
> | PARALLEL Round Submission Deadline | 2025-11-09 |
> | Screening | 2025-11-10 to 2025-11-15 |
> | SWAP Round Submission Deadline | 2025-12-07 |
> | Judging | 2025-12-08 to 2025-12-19 |
> | Results Livestream | 2025-12-21 |
> | DUET Round Submission Deadline | 2026-02-22 |
> | Judging | 2026-02-22 to 2026-03-13 |
> | Results Livestream | 2026-03-15 |

Reviewer: the wiki has standardised formatting for these date ranges

```suggestion
| Announcement | 2025-10-05 |
| PARALLEL round submission deadline | 2025-11-09 |
| Screening | 2025-11-10/2025-11-15 |
| SWAP round submission deadline | 2025-12-07 |
| Judging | 2025-12-08/2025-12-19 |
| Results livestream | 2025-12-21 |
| DUET round submission deadline | 2026-02-22 |
| Judging | 2026-02-22/2026-03-13 |
| Results livestream | 2026-03-15 |
```

> All deadlines end at 11:59pm UTC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All deadlines end at 23:59 UTC.
```

> The **results livestreams** will be broadcast live on the [*Vocaloid Appreciation Team* Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/vocaloidappreciationteam), with commentary and live reactions.  Recordings will later be available on the [*Vocaloid Appreciation Team* YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@VocaloidAppreciationTeam).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **results livestreams** will be broadcast live on the [*Vocaloid Appreciation Team* Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/vocaloidappreciationteam), with commentary and live reactions. Recordings will later be available on the [*Vocaloid Appreciation Team* YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@VocaloidAppreciationTeam).
```

## Prizes

| Placing | Prize(s) |
| :-: | :-- |

> | 1st | Two laptops (sponsored by [**Noobie_Potato**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15174655)) for osu! mode winners; 6 months of osu!supporter; [Contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points); VMC3 Winner profile badge; Fast track your map to ranked status; Potential inclusion in new game installs; Personal recognition from the artist |
> | 2nd | 3 months of osu!supporter; [Contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
> | 3rd | 1 month of osu!supporter; [Contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
> | SWAP Round Winner | 3 months of osu!supporter; Possible badge and/or [contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1st | Two laptops (courtesy of [**Noobie_Potato**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15174655)) for osu! mode winners, 6 months of osu!supporter, [Contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points), **VMC3 Winner** profile badge, entry fast-tracked to Ranked status, personal recognition from the artist |
| 2nd | 3 months of osu!supporter, [contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
| 3rd | 1 month of osu!supporter, [contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
| SWAP round winner | 3 months of osu!supporter, possible badge and/or [contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
```

| Judging | 2026-02-22/2026-03-13 |
| Results livestream | 2026-03-15 |

All deadlines end at 23:59 UTC.

The **results livestreams** will be broadcast live on the [*Vocaloid Appreciation Team* Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/vocaloidappreciationteam), with commentary and live reactions. Recordings will later be available on the [*Vocaloid Appreciation Team* YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@VocaloidAppreciationTeam).

## Prizes

| Placing | Prize(s) |
| :-: | :-- |
| 1st | Two laptops (courtesy of [**Noobie_Potato**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15174655)) for osu! mode winners, 6 months of osu!supporter, [Contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points), **VMC3 Winner** profile badge, entry fast-tracked to Ranked status |
| 2nd | 3 months of osu!supporter, [contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
| 3rd | 1 month of osu!supporter, [contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
| SWAP round winner | 3 months of osu!supporter, possible badge and/or [contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |

All participating mappers will receive feedback from experienced members of the community to help them improve their skills.

> Reach out to [-White](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/16276548) or head over to the contest's [main website](https://www.vat.gg) if you're interested in sponsoring this event!

Reviewer: wiki pages skip the contractions

```suggestion
Reach out to [-White](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/16276548) or head over to the contest's [main website](https://www.vat.gg) if you are interested in sponsoring this event!
```

### PARALLEL round

- Teams of **two mappers** must be formed before submitting for this round.  
- One mapper will select and map a song from **MARETU**, while the other will select and map a song from **mimizu**.
- **Each team must submit two (2) separate maps** by the round deadline — one for each chosen song.  
- After submissions close, a short screening phase will occur.
    - Teams that are eliminated will be notified via osu! private message or Discord.  

*Tip:* Form your team and start planning early to avoid last-minute rushes. Further, we recommend planning ahead to future rounds when selecting your teammate.

### SWAP round

- Surviving teams will now **swap songs** with their partners:
  - For example, if Mapper A mapped Song #1 in the PARALLEL Round, they will now map Song #2, which Mapper B originally mapped.  
- Each team must again submit **two (2) completely new maps**, one for each swapped song.  
- **The twist:** These new maps must reflect a different interpretation of the songs than in the PARALLEL Round.  
  - Maps that are overly similar to their original versions will receive heavy penalties during judging.  

> - If you're confident your team will survive the screening phase, you may begin work on this round before results are announced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are confident your team will survive the screening phase, you may begin work on this round before results are announced.
```

### DUET round

- The **top 6 teams** from the SWAP Round advance to this final phase.  
- Both team members will **collaborate directly** to create a **single cohesive mapset** for a selected song.  

> - **Every difficulty in the submission must be created collaboratively**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Every difficulty in the submission must be created collaboratively.**
```

> This three-phase structure challenges teams to demonstrate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This three-phase structure challenges teams to demonstrate:

```

| Criterion | Points | Description |
| :-: | :-: | :-- |
| **Phase 1 – Uniqueness** | **100** | How distinctive and innovative is the entry? Does it showcase fresh ideas that set it apart from typical mapping trends while feeling cohesive and enjoyable? |
| **Phase 2 – Cohesion** | **100** | How naturally do the swapped maps work as a single, unified entry? The final product should feel seamless and consistent despite being made by different team members. |
| **Relevance** | 60 | How well does the map fit the song? Are the gameplay elements fundamentally tied to the music? |
| **Creativity** | 60 | How bold and exciting are the mapper's ideas compared to current mapping trends? Does the map evoke reactions like "wow!" or "that's super interesting"? |
| **Expertise** | 60 | Technical skill, execution, and consistency of the map's design and structure. |
| **Overall Impression** | 80 | Subjective evaluation from the judging panel, factoring in personal enjoyment and interpretation. |

## Staff

| Role | User |
| :-: | :-- |
| Host | ::{ flag=US }:: [-White](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/16276548) |

> | Special Thanks | ::{ flag=US }:: [Pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418), ::{ flag=SE }:: [Walavouchey](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5773079) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Special thanks | ::{ flag=US }:: [Pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418), ::{ flag=SE }:: [Walavouchey](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5773079) |
```
